docs: start page on overview of extensibility features (#187)
dhis2/developer-portal: docs/guides/overview-extensibility-features.md

### Core libraries

-   [App Platform](/docs/app-platform/getting-started): The `@dhis2/cli-app-scripts` package sets up an app scaffold and handles the development and build tooling, including bundling and transpilation, manifest generation, app shell encapsulation, i18n extract and generate, tests infrastructure, and publication. It is the recommended starting point for any new DHIS2 web app.
-   [App Runtime](/docs/app-runtime/getting-started.md): The `@dhis2/app-runtime` package provides React hooks and components for the things every app does at runtime: data queries and mutations, alerts, configuration, server discovery, online/offline status, and authentication.
-   [UI Library](/docs/ui/webcomponents): The `@dhis2/ui` package is a library of reusable, accessible React components that follow the DHIS2 design system, so apps look and behave consistently with the rest of the platform.

### CLI tooling

> -   [DHIS2 CLI](/docs/cli): The `d2` command-line tool. The `d2 app` subcommand wraps the App Platform scripts, and there are additional subcommands for cluster management and style configuration.

Author: A big thing to highlight somewhere here (either here or with cli-app-scripts) is the ability to bootstrap new apps, I think linking here: https://developers.dhis2.org/docs/quickstart/quickstart-web (this page has apparently been updated since this PR was created 😁 )

-   [d2 style](/docs/cli/style/getting-started): Shared Prettier and ESLint configuration for DHIS2 projects, so all apps use a consistent code style.

### Helper libraries

-   [Multi-calendar dates](https://github.com/dhis2/multi-calendar-dates): The `@dhis2/multi-calendar-dates` package handles DHIS2 Periods across every calendar DHIS2 supports, which makes apps work for implementations that don't use the Gregorian calendar. The UI library exposes [`Calendar`](/docs/ui/components/calendar) and [`CalendarInput`](/docs/ui/components/calendar-input) components that build on top of this library.
-   [Translation support (d2-i18n)](/docs/guides/translation-support.md): The internationalization helper used by the App Platform's i18n pipeline. Most apps interact with it via `i18n.t(...)` after running the platform's extract/generate scripts. If you're using the DHIS2 App Platform, much of the setup is handled automatically.

> -   [Analytics](https://github.com/dhis2/analytics): The `@dhis2/analytics` package provides helper functions and shared React components used by the analytics apps (Data Visualizer, Line Listing, Pivot Tables) for building visualizations on top of the analytics API.

Author: This one is a valuable one that often gets overlooked:

```suggestion
-   [Analytics](https://github.com/dhis2/analytics): The `@dhis2/analytics` package provides helper functions and shared React components used by the analytics apps (Data Visualizer, Line Listing, Pivot Tables) for interacting with the analytics API. Valuable components include Data, Period, and Organisation Unit dimension selectors.
```

## Plugins

> Plugins let you embed custom UI inside one of the core DHIS2 apps. They are themselves App Platform apps, but they expose a plugin entry point rather than a full standalone UI, so the host app can render your component at a specific extension point without having to fork the host app.

Author: A link to the general guide would be helpful here: https://developers.dhis2.org/docs/plugins/general-plugin-guide

---
id: overview-extensibility-features
title: Overview of available extensibility features
sidebar_label: Extensibility features overview
slug: /overview/all-features
---

This page provides an overview of all of the extensibility features that are available that can help you develop what you need to on top of and alongside DHIS2.

> -   API: The whole [Web REST API](https://docs.dhis2.org/en/develop/using-the-api/dhis-core-version-master/introduction.html) is available to use. Operations on data and metadata are generic and available to be used by any extension.

Reviewer: suggestion: similar to "integrations" header, maybe the first part can be divided under two headers, one for "core" (API, routes etc..) and the other for "custom apps" (with apps, platform, plugins...)

or the headers can be "core extension points", "apps extension points", "integrations" etc...
